README.md, before:

# debug-rs
A small Rust crate that provides an alternative for Rust's builtin `Debug`-derive macro that can handle cases where not all generics need to implement `Debug`.


## Installation
To use the crate, simply add it to your `Cargo.toml`:
```toml
debug = { git = "https://github.com/Lut99/debug-rs" }
```

You can also use a specific version by adding the appropriate tag:
```toml
debug = { git = "https://github.com/Lut99/debug-rs", tag = "v0.1.0" }
```


## Usage
This crate is supposed to be a drop-in replacement of the builtin `Debug`-derive macro.

The only difference are the generic bounds generated by the macro: instead of generating a `Debug`-bound on all _generics_, it generates it for all _fields types_.

For example:
```rust
use std::fmt::{Debug, Formatter, Result as FResult};
use std::marker::PhantomData;

struct Foo<T>(PhantomData<T>);

// Generated by the builtin
impl<T> Debug for Foo<T>
where
    T: Debug,
{
    fn fmt(&self, f: &mut Formatter) -> FResult { /* ... */ }
}

// Generated by our macro
impl<T> Debug for Foo<T>
where
    PhantomData<T>: Debug,
{
    fn fmt(&self, f: &mut Formatter) -> FResult { /* ... */ }
}
```
Since `PhantomData` implements `Debug` regardless of whether `T` does, this means that this property holds for `Foo` as well.

### Documentation
The auto-generated code documentation can be generated by running:
```sh
cargo doc --no-deps --open
```
This will automatically open the resulting web pages with your default browser.

### Examples
For more examples, see the `examples/`-folder in the main repository.


## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Feel free to [raise an issue](https://github.com/Lut99/debug-rs/issues) or [create a pull request](https://github.com/Lut99/debug-rs/pulls).


## License
This project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 license. See [`LICENSE/`](./LICENSE) for more details.

Commit message:

Push to 1.0.0
- Renamed crate to `better-derive`
- Added `Eq, Hash, PartialEq` derive macros

README.md, after:

# better-derive-rs
A small Rust crate that provides alternatives for Rust's builtin `Debug`-, `Eq`-, `Hash`- and `PartialEq`-derive macros that apply more accurate trait bounds for generated impls.


## Installation
To use the crate, simply add it to your `Cargo.toml`:
```toml
better-derive = { git = "https://github.com/Lut99/better-derive-rs" }
```

You can also use a specific version by adding the appropriate tag:
```toml
better-derive = { git = "https://github.com/Lut99/better-derive-rs", tag = "v1.0.0" }
```


## Usage
This crate is supposed to be a drop-in replacement of the builtin macro counterparts.

The only difference are the generic bounds generated by the macro: instead of generating an e.g. `Debug`-bound on all _generics_, it generates it for all _fields types_.

For example:
```rust
use std::fmt::{Debug, Formatter, Result as FResult};
use std::marker::PhantomData;

struct Foo<T>(PhantomData<T>);

// Generated by the builtin
impl<T> Debug for Foo<T>
where
    T: Debug,
{
    fn fmt(&self, f: &mut Formatter) -> FResult { /* ... */ }
}

// Generated by our macro
impl<T> Debug for Foo<T>
where
    PhantomData<T>: Debug,
{
    fn fmt(&self, f: &mut Formatter) -> FResult { /* ... */ }
}
```
Since `PhantomData` implements `Debug` regardless of whether `T` does, this means that this property holds for `Foo` as well.

### Supported macros
The following macros find a counterpart in this crate:
- `Debug`
- `Eq`
- `Hash`
- `PartialEq`

### Documentation
The auto-generated code documentation can be generated by running:
```sh
cargo doc --no-deps --open
```
This will automatically open the resulting web pages with your default browser.

### Examples
For more examples, see the `examples/`-folder in the main repository.


## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Feel free to [raise an issue](https://github.com/Lut99/better-derive-rs/issues) or [create a pull request](https://github.com/Lut99/better-derive-rs/pulls).


## License
This project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 license. See [`LICENSE/`](./LICENSE) for more details.
